15% on all goods coming from Europe, 0%
on US goods going to Europe. So an
opening up of Europe markets, paying us
15% and on top of that getting
commitments like $750 billion, almost a
trillion dollars of energy purchases
from the US. Or look at Japan, which
they announced last week, another huge
market. Again, similar. They're going to
pay tariffs to the United States. No
tariffs imposed on the United States.
and they're going to invest $550 billion
dollars into the US in a way the
president gets to direct. So I would
love I would I just think we need to
give the president credit where credit
is due. Everybody said this was going to
lead to retaliation to trade wars was
going to be disastrous for the US and
all we've seen so far is deals deals
deals deals. And I have to say, if this
was the CEO of one of our companies,
right, let's say we had a board meeting
at the start of the year and he outlined
these plans and we said, "Hey, we're
really nervous about this. You know,
this is a high-risisk, highreward
strategy. It's either going to backfire
and we're going to fire you or it's
going to work really well and we give
you a bonus." If we're measuring them
halfway through the year, I would say
that he's in line for a bonus.
[Music]
[Applause]
All right, the summer pods back in
action. Uh, good to see you guys. We
have our good friend Sunonny Madra, the
COO of Grock, joining from I don't know,
Sunny, it looks like some fancy hotel in
Saudi Arabia in the middle of the night.
Good to see you.
>> You picked it up. You picked it up. You
have a good You have a good eye for the
Middle East. And Bill, Bill, you got off
your boat catching blue fin tuna. You're
uh you look like you're in some office
somewhere. So good to see you.
>> I am uh borrowing Mitch Lasky's
incredible podcast setup in in our
Woodside office with the uh Oh, nice
high highde SLR camera.
>> Nice. You're looking you're looking
good. Sunny, of course, our good buddy
Sunny is the COO of Grock. Um I don't
know, Sunny, probably a few hundred
million of revenues, maybe doubling
year-over-year. I just saw something.
You're rumored to be raising 600 million
at a $6 billion valuation. Maybe that
has something to do with you being over
in Saudi Arabia. Um, and of course,
you're hosting all the uh open-source
models in in your inference clouds
around the world. Is that about right.
>> Yeah, you got you got it right. You
touched on all the key points. You know,
we don't comment on speculation, but you
touched on some good points.
>> Well, it's great to see you in DC last
week. Um, you know, our good friend
David Saxs is really on a heater. First,
it was the crypto summit a couple weeks
ago. Of course, the Genius Act got
passed, which really teed up these
stable coins and and and now the Clarity
Act around market structures making its
way through Congress. And then of course
last week was the AI summit where the
president laid out um a multi-prong
strategic plan for American AI that both
extends the government's investment and
and leadership um but also accelerates
the distribution of the American AI
stack around the world. Both of those
things, both the crypto and the AI
summit that he put together, I thought
are key contributions really to the next
generation of American technology
leadership around the world. It's
amazing to see that much progress in six
months. Congrats to Sachs
>> and the rest of the team. Catios, Dean
Ball, Sriram, they really all kind of
brought it brought the heat.
>> Yeah, for sure. Of course, the AI action
plan was focused on maintaining global
AI leadership, particularly over China.
And I hate to say it, but we have really
been our own worst enemy. You know, it
seems like excess regulation on
everything from energy production to
model development to semiconductor chip
distribution. It's really been a bit of
an unforced air by the US over the
course of the last 24 months and handed
a lot of momentum to China. and I think
really threatened our leadership. So,
this is kind of a 180 to get America
back on track. You know, we've
underestimated Huawei and the Chinese AI
development, model development really at
every step of the way. So, I want to
kick off today talking about recent
developments with the base models and
reasoning models coming out of China
because, you know, we had this freakout
moment earlier in the year with Deepseek
that we all remember. Remember, Nvidia
stock plummets. Everybody in
Washington's talking about it,
>> but since then, you know, people kind of
forgot about Deep Seek. But the reality
is China's been on a roll. I mean,
they're dominating the global landscape
for open-source models. We've seen six
to seven highquality open- source model
providers, many of the fastest growing
in the world. And this at a time when
American open- source, right, Llama 4,
has been sputtering a bit, really losing
its mojo around the world. Um, so Quen,
the open- source model out of Alibaba
has passed, I think, 400 million
downloads. Of course, that's released
like these other models under the Apache
2.0 open source license. So, very open
as Bill's talked about. But, Sunny, you
tweeted, and one of the reasons I wanted
to get you on the pod this week is you
tweeted, you know, that the all of these
open- source models are really coming
together in China. Um, they're
leveraging one another. they can distill
and generate synthetic data on each
other's work. And you went so far as to
suggest this might allow them to pass
the best proprietary models coming out
of the US um yet this year, maybe by Q4
of this year. So why don't we dig in
there? What is your theory of the case?
Why is China, you know, doing so well in
open source? And should US model
companies like OpenAI and Anthropic be
concerned?
>> Yeah. So, uh, let let's kind of tie it
into, I think, three important things
that we see happening. The first one
being, you know, the Chinese and and the
president addressed this at the AI
summit, right? He addressed um the the
point around using copyrighted work and
he says, you know, he used a great
example. If you read a book and you use
it, you're not violating the copyright
there. And so, he addressed that concern
and that was one of the major things
that, you know, a lot of people didn't
talk about, but I think it's important
for the model makers. And so the Chinese
just have been able to work around that
because of, you know, their position on
IP. And what we're really seeing here,
and I think, you know, Bill teed it up
even better off off of my tweet, which
is, um, you know, they're able to
compound. So what you're seeing very
quickly is both the open- source nature,
the open weights nature, uh, allow them
to basically compound on each other. So
instead of working in silos and instead
of having to create giant training
clusters um separately they can
basically take each other's work build
on top of it almost consider it like a
remix of someone's model K2 sort of a
well-known remix of what what Deepseek
had done and now we're starting to see
that happen really fast and we're seeing
two dimensions of it going quickly. One
we're seeing the leading edge models
getting quicker and we're then seeing
them distill down smaller you know turbo
models really really fast as well. There
was a a release today of a quen you know
30 billion parameter model which is
performing as good as GPT40. So think
about that right and GPT40 was you know
world class not that long ago. So those
are the reasons that we're really seeing
an acceleration right now.
>> You know it I want to dig into this
model development in particular. You
know a year ago we were talking about
these models being these you know
stochastic parrots um you know and we
really had to compress the entire
internet. So you go back to GPT4, you
know, and and and you're compressing,
you know, the entire internet. But now
we really don't need to do it because
we've trained them to use tools like the
internet, right? The they're true
reasoning engines. When I ask a question
today, you know, it doesn't just spit
out an answer immediately. It goes and
uses the tool and it searches the
internet. Um, so if you don't have to
compress all this wikipedia information,
I don't know, take take a subject like
World War II, you just need to know how
to go out and use the internet to find
the information to summarize it in real
time. How has that changed the pace of
progress and the balance between open
and closed?
>> Yeah. And so it's spot on, right, Brad?
what we see now and you see it when you
use these reasoning models and what I
suggest everyone do is when you're using
a reasoning model you can usually expand
out its thought process so when you ask
a question it'll say oh the person is
asking a question about this what should
I do let me go and maybe search the
internet let me go do a few different
things it can have a lot of different
tools and so the push has been towards
you know really really strong reasoning
models and you know we have to give
credit there openai really started that
with 01 that was really the first
reasoning model that was put out there
but I think on the back of the research
church in the back of what you know
everyone talked about and you know the
pod's good friend Nome Brown was the
leader on that program everyone's been
able to look at that and say let's
reframe the problem and this allows us
to build stronger reasoning models that
don't have to compress like you said all
the internet's information and once
they're coupled with strong tools you
start getting these really really
incredible results that don't even just
show up in benchmarks because none of
the benchmarks really allow you to use a
tool to answer the results and if they
did we're going to see a whole bunch of
new set of results that happened there.
>> Hey Bill, just in many ways I think this
validates what you were arguing over the
last 6 to 12 months. You said this was
likely to happen. Everybody knows you're
you're one of the biggest proponents of
open source in the world. Um and you
were telling people don't make you know
the Chinese are going to use open source
to their advantage and now we're seeing
that in a really profound way. Why is
China so successful here and what we
what what what can we learn from them?
Well, I we've talked about it in the
past. I won't dwell on it, but China got
excited about open source about 20 years
ago. It's not a new thing that's
happened. And you can imagine when um
most of the world accuses you of IP
theft that that embracing something like
Linux and all the other software open
source products um seems very appealing,
right? And so I think it became kind of
a common way of operating within China.
Um and it, you know, it's a country that
hasn't prioritized uh IP protection the
way we have, you know, around patents.
And I I could make an argument that, you
know, there's way more prosperity if
ideas are shared instead of instead of
protected. But um I don't know the one
thing I don't know is in the in the
current AI situation you know was the
government promoting open source and
encouraging it or did it just develop
through competitive forces right
>> but but now you have you know a scenario
where these companies you know are you
know are first of all there's new ones
popping up and so you know I almost feel
like an idiot when when Kimmy comes out
and moonshot and and and And this week,
I guess I don't even know how to
pronounce it. Zippu, you know, releases
a model and I go on Pitchbook and I look
it up and they've already raised $1.4
billion. So, shouldn't have been a
secret, but I didn't know about it, you
know. Um, and all of a sudden they're in
the leader tables on Open Router and
like, oh my god, you know, they're
coming out of everywhere. Um, and what
it shows you is just that when you have
a competitive dynamic where every single
player, and I think there may be seven
or eight deep pocketed players with open
models in China, they they all learn
from each other extremely fast. And and
in this case, unlike software, you can
use one model to distill the other and
make it better. So, it's almost like a
accelerated, you know, form of that and
you just get massive quick co-evolution.
And I I came up with a a uh a little
analogy for people. I'll try and do it
quickly, but imagine you had two
communities. They're both farming
communities and and let's say there's 10
to 20 farms in each. And in one
community, they come into the farmers
market once a week and they just compete
by selling their products, but then they
go back. in the other community when
they come into farmers market they also
in addition to competing and selling
they they they're forced I don't know
who would force them but they're forced
to share all their best practices from
that week
>> with everybody and everyone does it and
everyone shares their best practices and
then if you ran that exercise over two
years or whatever obviously the
community where the best practices are
shared across all farms is going to have
a higher global output for the community
than the one where you've just got
proprietary ideas uh driving you know
the individ and and just competition
without the idea sharing and that may
like even me saying that may cause some
people to scream that's socialism or
like you know they may not understand
open source or how it works or why um
but but I do think you end up with a
higher fitness level for a community
that's behaving that way overall you may
end up with a lot less chance of a
breakout monopolist
like we've had in many of the the
sectors in in American technology.
>> Well, I mean, let's let's just assume
the Chinese government is in fact
encouraging this in whatever ways,
right? I mean, if you look at the
release of the AI action plan last week,
the Trump administration, you know, had
a section
>> they did
>> which which is about encouraging
open-source and open weight models in
the US
>> saying that these could become standards
in some businesses and academic
workloads. And it's important they're
built on the American AI stack. So, you
know, as an aside, the Chinese quickly
followed uh, you know, the the American
AI plan. I think they released theirs a
couple days later where they called for
the establishment of a global AI
cooperation organization,
>> which I thought again is is is is
interesting. So, you know, Bill, how do
you feel about, you know, like we we we
haven't seen that much traction in the
US labs uh on open source? Obviously,
Llama has been probably the market
leader there, but this is for both of
you. Uh, you know, handicap for me if
you will, how you think this plays out.
First, Sunny, maybe you start. What do
you see at Grock? Do you see a lot of
demand for these Chinese open-source
models? And if so, what would it take
for an American open- source model to
catch up?
>> Yeah, one of the uh things that we
should pull up is the chart of
intelligence to price. And one of the
things that you see with the leading
open source models now, which are the
Chinese, is 90% of the quality in terms
of intelligence, but at a 90% price
discount. And I think whenever you offer
that to anybody, you're going to see
people want to use that, whether it's
individual developers or enterprises.
And so we're seeing that
>> let me interrupt there real quick. So if
you're looking at this chart, right, in
the top right of that chart, uh you'll
see a cluster of these Chinese open-
source companies, right? And the
vertical axes here being really
intelligence, the horizontal axes from
left to right being the cost per million
tokens. And so you really want to be in
the top right of of of that model. High
intelligence, low cost. And what this
model what what this uh uh chart shows
is that you you know to Sunny's point
you can get 90% of the intelligence
right for 10 or 20% of the cost. And the
result I assume Sunny is that you're
seeing huge demand at Grock and in Saudi
Arabia where you are right now for these
Chinese open source models.
>> We are. And then now just taking that
forward. What do people want? They want
some accountability. And that's what
you'll get. That's what you sort of got
out of Linux and say Red Hat, right? As
as great as Linux was and Bill was
touching on it, the majority of the
enterprise was using, you know, a
distribution which they could go and,
you know, point to someone if they
needed something. And so I think the
world wants models that they can get
from companies that they can go to. And
so to answer your question, what
happens? I think if we look at Q4 this
year or Q1 next year, I'd be willing to
say, you know, the a top three worldwide
model will be a US-based open source
model. And you know, we've got two big
efforts happening there. We know we have
the open AI open source which you know a
lot of people have been working on and
open AAI and even you know Sam has
commented on that and its release later
this summer and then we have all the
efforts by meta and if you take you you
combine both of those things together I
don't think you end up with something
that ends up further down the the list
in terms of intelligence andor price.
I um one thing I wanted to highlight
about the China situation that I think
might inform the US situation. I was um
I was having a conversation with this
extremely young AI uh entrepreneur that
I know and he he he was pouring over the
the Zippu I hope I'm pronouncing that
right paper and um he asked me some
information. I went on Pitchbook and
sent it to him who had funded it. And he
he he he asked me, he says, "Why is
Alibaba funding all these things when
they've got their own model?" And
because they're in several of the other
competitive plays and it reminded me of,
you know, a lot of the the the points
that I've made about open source is like
if you're not if you if you're not
confident you're going to win on
offense, you want to play defense. And
so for any large tech company,
commoditizing a a potential threat is is
actually quite valuable. You know, you
look at what Facebook did with the open
compute initiative inside of their data
centers. And so, you know, it may just
be very well be that that Alibaba just
wants to make sure there's no bite
dance, you know, that equivalent in the
eye space. And that would be pretty
rational. And the reason I think that's
an interesting data point when you think
about the US and you know there there
are several big tech companies that seem
to be not on the bleeding edge of AI.
You know you got Microsoft maybe I mean
they have access to open AI right now
but they might lose that or whatever.
>> You've got um Amazon, you got Apple. you
know, if I'm at any of those companies,
I'd be funding a open-source competitor,
you know, rather than funding, you know,
like Amazon with Antropic. I think
you're in a much better position to
encourage open source. And so, I
actually think we may
>> But Bill, are there are there are there
a bunch of open source startup models in
the US?
>> That's where that's where I was going
next. I I think you're going to see new
entrance um pop up um that that that try
to co-evolve with the Chinese models.
You know, is Linux American? Is Linux
Chinese? Like no one thinks of it as
having a a doicile, right? And so um
this is just me predicting. I don't you
know I I just think you're going to see
just like you saw um Kimmy and and Japu
pop up. I wouldn't be shocked if you see
other new entrance pop up that are
trying to be um like sanctioned or or or
you know cleaned you know use Redhead as
an example Sunny version of these things
because I think if you start with access
to those Chinese models it wouldn't take
you long to move into a near place and
you wouldn't have to spend the kind of
money the foundational model companies
have. Um, and and then you may see a big
fight around regulatory capture where
they someone tries to say that's not
allowed or whatnot. But I I do expect to
see that. And if I'm the mistrol team,
if you're not distilling on these
Chinese models, I don't know what you're
doing right now,
but I don't have any data on that front.
>> OpenAI is rumored to be launching their
open source model any day. Sunny, what
would they have to do? So to your point,
you predicted, go back to the
intelligence and pricing chart, right?
So if open AI was in the top right of
that chart, i.e. if they're able to
deliver something at the the
intelligence of let's call it Quen, and
they're also able to deliver it to
market at, you know, 20% of the cost. It
would seem to me that actors around the
world certainly actor it would be uh you
know part of the American AI action plan
we'd want everybody in the world to use
that model and do you believe they have
a shot at out competing being the upper
right you know by the end of the year
and and and if so do you think that will
be the outcome like these companies that
are using Quen on Grock do you think
they would prefer to use OpenAI so long
as it was equally capable and equally
price performant
So two things that we see is brand and
you know the US doiciled or you know
someone that they can kind of point at
that wins and so if that shows up it
will win because if you're a company
>> and you know at some point you have to
you know get your teams to sign off on
what is it that you're using what are
the risks associated with it and like
you know who is liable if something goes
wrong and so I sort of feel like um with
OpenAI's release and if you know Meta
charges back or even if some of these
startups emerge that you know we can
point at I think we'll see a huge shift
back towards those models versus versus
the Chinese ones.
>> Yep. And we really don't know at this
point unless you guys have some inside
knowledge like when when Meta makes
their second push with all these hires
that they've made are they are they
going to remain committed to open source
or even be more open? We don't we really
don't know yet at this point.
>> Right. You certainly seen some of those
rumors out there. Um you know, I've seen
rumors that on Twitter that they were
debating whether or not they should back
away from open source. Um my hunch is
that that's a misread. My hunch is that
they're going to stay very committed to
open source, but they may complement it
with a proprietary model. That would be
my guess. As opposed to scrapping
open-source alto together. And Brad, can
I throw one thing out there? I think
part of the pitch to get everyone there
is that it's open
>> because everyone that they're pulling
over are coming from closed places. And
so if you're really passionate about the
work you're doing and you're passionate
about where this is going to come and
there's only there's only one company
that can fund that to that scale and do
it open is is those guys. So I think
it's part of the pitch.
>> Yeah. Some of some of the researchers
like have a religious belief in it which
was evident in the in the interview with
the Deep Seek founder like it's it's
oddly like higher on their Maslov you
know hierarchy than the money.
>> Of course they're getting the money.
>> Of course it's both. This is I I I think
a really important point I want to come
back to Sunny is that you're seeing
massive demand for these Chinese
open-source models today precisely
because
enterprises around the world can utilize
them. They have 90% of the capabilities
at 20% of the cost. 10 or 20% of the
cost, you know. So it turns out if you
deliver something really powerful and
really cheap that's more important to
these players than American values
aligned. But if you gave them something
that was super powerful and super cheap
and aligned with Western values, right,
that you think that would be uh the
winning formula for an American OpenAI
model to top the uh uh the distribution
leaderboards around the world. Is that
what I'm I think yeah on a place like
open router you know where you can see
where this is happening I see we we
would see it rise to the top in a few
days
>> u that's music to David Sax's ears
because you know clearly in the
strategic plan they're worried about
Chinese open- source models dominating
uh globally and we're we're if you just
watch the pace of releases the quality
of the releases out of China the cycle
time on the innovation in the open
source community out of China. It's
faster and better at the moment. So, and
the only real big development, you know,
we may see some of these new startups,
Bill, Bill, we may see a reboot out of
meta, but the the one that has, I think,
everybody really holding their breath
and hoping that we see something really
capable and powerful uh is this open
source model that's been promised out of
open AI. Now, of course, Elon says he's
committed to open source as well. Gro 4
is a great model is impressive what they
uh what they put out there. Any idea uh
Sunny about the open source plans out of
out of uh X?
>> Yeah. So I think like Elon's been you
know pretty said it on Twitter that
they'll always open source one
generation back and so while they were
on three you know they should have
gotten to two and now they're on four.
So I think the the thinking is that they
will get there. You know, my my only
guess would be is that um you know,
right now if they were to open source
two or even three, it's so far behind
that um you know, what's what's the
purpose in doing it? It may not even be
utilized and you'll maybe end up having
to deal with just, you know, a bunch of
internet or Twitter FUD. Just coming
back to open AI, I I will tell you it's
like one of those things that really you
rarely see in the enterprise. It's
almost like the demand for like a, you
know, like a Tesla Roadster or something
or or Model Y before it came out.
Everybody asked for it. It's like that's
the model that everybody wants to use
right now. And so, you know, we can't
wait till it it comes live and and it it
it you know, one it's on Grock, one it's
all over the world. I think it's going
to be a real big one for everyone.
>> While while we have you, Sunonny, um you
know, there's really just been this
explo explosion in the compute arms
race, right? Um there was a big debate
you were on the pod a year ago. We had
with Bill, you know, had we topped out
on compute demand, you know, were we
entering an overbuild all Cisco 2000? Um
and it's really been remarkable. I think
now that's very clear. But just a couple
tweets out of Elon and Sam Alman the
last couple weeks on this compute demand
has have really caught my attention. If
you look at this one out of Elon talking
about the X.AI AI goal is 50 million in
units of H100 equivalent. And Clark Tang
on my team tweeted something that broke
that down. Um, which showed that that
reflected something like, you know, 4
million total GPUs and an energy
footprint of like 11 gawatt, right? And
then Sam Hoffman comes out and and and
talks about their deal down in Abalene
for 4.5 gawatt and the fact that they
were going to come in well above the
$500 billion estimate that they had
promised to the government. So these
compute clusters now that are being
talked about being built over the next 5
years, these are massively bigger than
what we were even talking about a year
ago. And I think they reflect this move
toward inference time re reasoning
agentto agent interaction reasoning
engines you know Jensen's comment on the
pod last year that inference was going
to 1 billionx and the consequence you
know what we were going to need in terms
of compute power to power all that. Um
maybe just reflect you're in the middle
of all this you're building out your own
inference clouds around the world. Um,
is this a lot of hyperbole and chest
pounding or do you actually see uh the
dollars going into the ground in places
like Saudi Arabia and around the US?
>> Yeah, I'm going to I'm going to just
quantify it with uh with Google for a
second.
>> So, you know, in the in in in the um in
the Mary Maker bond deck, you know, they
have a slide there that shows Google
went from 5 trillion tokens a month to
480 trillion tokens a month. And they
had just put some press out that they
crossed like, you know, 800 trillion.
And I saw something today. They crossed
a quadrillion. And I had to look that
up. That's a,000 trillion. And so in a
in a course of a year and a few months,
they've gone from 5 trillion to a,000
trillion. So that's 200x right there. I
mean, that just shows it to you. Um,
without having to look at anything else.
>> Uh, the amount
>> every single search query on the planet
today is now an inference transaction.
Correct. And so um you know and you see
it uh you know in anthropic uh with you
know their continued fundraisers going
you know through the roof uh that's
happening because they're they're seeing
the amount of token consumption. And so
anywhere we lay infrastructure um we
fire up a rack it becomes fully consumed
within a few hours.
>> You're talking Grock.
>> So you have demand far outstripping
supply even at Grock. Yep, we do.
>> So, Bill, you see these fundraising
announcements that are being discussed.
Just CNBC's reporting tonight. I think
that Iconic is going to lead a $5
billion round into Anthropic at 170
billion. In the case of Anthropic, it's,
you know, uh 170 billion on rumored $5
billion in revenue. X has been rumored
to be raising at 150 to$200 billion. So,
you know, you've never in the history of
venture, you've never seen fundraisers
like this. One of the topics that is
being hotly debated on on the Twitter,
uh, is that there's massive intervening
delilution in these rounds, Bill,
because of the employee option grants or
the employee RSUs that are needing to be
granted to keep the employees uh, you
know, uh, in these businesses. So just
observing this a little bit from afar. I
don't think you guys you're a direct
investor in in any of these uh major
labs.
What what do you see? What do you
observe? What are your warning signs uh
you know about the size and and the
demand that you see in these rounds?
>> Well, I yeah, I've never seen anything
like it. I mean, I saw you know, through
the Uber andyft situation, I saw a
precursor to this, but this these these
dollars are even bigger. and the amount
of money that these companies are
willing to lose in a year. You know,
it's I still think it's particularly
interesting that Google has to compete
with Open AI because OpenAI is going to
lose 7 billion this year and Google
won't like like they would never allow
themselves to do that. And and this
started back in that previous era where
where for the first time ever you saw
private companies have a competitive
advantage and that they can be more
risk-seeking with capital than the
public companies are allowed to be.
>> Um
>> but I think in the past 12 months we I
we've seen um OpenAI Meta and certainly
X you know move into this place. I call
them I call them the cost is no object
the CNO group um where they're just
they're just putting out press release
after press release and opening data
center after data center and you know we
there there are other people I think you
know you look at Microsoft you know
choosing not to extend their capex
budget you look at that Amazon example
when we spoke to the the Levant brothers
at codeu where they're they're not
keeping up with the the Nvidia purchases
relative to their AWS share. And so
there are a few companies that are back
on their feet and there's a few
companies that are really pushing the
gas pedal. And I can't there's a few in
the middle. I can't tell um whether
Anthropic has the uh audacity and the
means to raise enough money to to start
building data centers themselves. They
haven't so far. Um but it's uh you know
it's a sport of kings, you know. It's it
is a sport of kings like there is um
never been this amount of money spent
right now. Nvidia and others building in
the stack like like uh Dell that we we
spoke to a few weeks ago like they're
the winners um in a pick and shovel game
that's got this amount of
aggressiveness. It's uh and maybe maybe
SK Heinik too. I don't know.
Sunny, Sunny, do you see um you know
going back to the well-worn cliche that
every glut or that every shortage
ultimately ends in a glut? Um do you
have any evidence on the horizon where
you see uh uh supply outstripping
demand?
>> No. I mean I I was going to ask this to
Bill as he was just saying it. Bill,
like on a daily basis, are you consuming
more tokens or are you consuming more,
you know, just traditional um you know,
web lookups, right? And I'd be willing
to guess you're consuming more tokens.
>> Oh, it's insane.
>> And and and tokens are are increasing
like when you're using those reasoning
models, you don't see all the tokens,
right? They don't publish it, but
there's Right. This is where totally
Yeah. 10 to 100x more than the your very
first AI search. Yeah, for sure.
Absolutely. The one thing the one thing
I will So you're right. I I'm doing
>> Go ahead. You finish.
>> No, no, no, no, no. And I just wanted to
say even yesterday, Anthropic had to put
this uh you know, press release plus,
you know, product change out saying,
"Hey, we've got to throttle everybody,
right?" And this is like cuz we have all
these people using way too much of our
our services. So I think you know if you
have intelligent models right and you
have the capacity for it it's one of
those things people are consuming Jven's
paradox or whatever. Yeah. Sorry. Go
ahead, Bill. You're
>> No, I was just going to offer one caveat
to to this uh super uh exciting line of
of of thought, which is because of the
amount of venture capital out there. Um
companies are not pricing the cost like
no one no one none of the model
companies I don't think anyone even in
the verticals like no one's pricing the
cost because they're pricing to take
market share. And you know, you and I,
Sunny, we had a previous discussion
about the unlimited pricing and
inference has variable costs. So, is
that even sustainable, right? And and
even when people say to me, "Oh, well,
we're going to run out of power." You
wouldn't run out of power if you just
took the price up. Like, like the thing
that throttles demand is price, but no
one here is raising price. Like
Anthropic doesn't need to throttle. They
just raise price, but they're not
willing to do that because they're
afraid to lose share. And so everyone's
pricing to share. That means they're
pricing under cost. There's rumors of
even some of the best known brands in AI
having negative gross margin. And so I
don't know when that settles out, but
that there that will create a bump in
the supply demand curve if that ever has
to be, you know, fixed. Um but for now
it doesn't
>> because because
>> Can I ask a question there?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. No, no. which is going back to the
point that we made on open source, but
if you know in the back of your mind
that there's something that's 90% as
good, but it's 90% cheaper. How does
that factor in because we've also never
had that that factor as we're going
through this growth curve. I mean since
almost since we started the pod you know
I've I've routinely highlighted that the
steepness of that price curve on you
know as you as it kind of becomes you
know less less cutting edge is something
I've never seen before. I've never ever
seen it. And I'm sure that a lot of um
people sit around and say, well, it's
okay if I'm losing money here because,
you know, six months from now, I'll just
use the older model. And we also talked
in the past about how in the internet
age all the startups began with Oracle
and Sun and eventually they all moved to
Linux and MySQL. And so there was a
there was a we got to win at all cost
phase and then there was a phase where
you started worrying about cost and
optimization. And so one day, one day
we'll likely, you know, make that make
that move. And and and I a few of the
companies I've talked to that are
running inference at scale, they are
already starting to think that way. Like
they're looking right they're looking at
it, you know, from that from that lens.
But I but
>> well and and I think that's why Grock
and Cerebras are doing so well. But
Sunny, give us give give us an, you
know, an an example. I would imagine
that the wind surfs of the world and the
cursors of the world and all these folks
who are building these you know these
coding agents they've got massive you
know demand for their applications right
but they're paying through the nose to
anthropic or to these underlying
proprietary model providers to be able
to do that so what's the dynamic that
you see there do you see them running to
implement Quinn or some of these cheaper
models
>> yeah without kind of getting into
specific any one of them, but like you
know multiple folks are building their
own models uh based off open source and
>> right so they could just go distill any
one of these models.
>> Correct.
>> Right. And you know given that they're
these very uh lenient Apache licenses
and eliminate the entire cost of sonnet
that sits under it for 70% of use cases.
>> Yeah. And and like Bill said, turn that
into a premium offering, right? and say
that's the you know the gold and you
know the silver and the bronze are built
off uh you know something that's like I
said oneten the price
>> that seems to me Bill you know if if I
had to forecast
you know if I'm open AI I'm running a
consumer business with really high gross
margins right because consumers are uh
uh less sensitive to what they're paying
their their their their intensity of use
is lower. Whereas when if if somebody's
writing code, you know, there's the
variable intensity is high. And so, you
know, for them, it would make sense to
launch an open source model back to
where we started the pod and price it
really low to, you know, drive share
knowing, you know, it reminds me a
little bit of Amazon back in the day.
Amazon had this monopoly retail business
they could use to subsidize AWS gain
share for a decade and then begin to
take price. That would be a rational
strategy for open AI to follow. So you
take the profitable consumer business
you use it to subsidize you know the the
the market share in other applications
that you hope to build.
>> Certainly a reasonable strategy. I I I I
I'm not inside that company. you have
way more knowledge than I do, but um you
know, I pay the $200 a month and I do
every one of my searches on four or five
and I'm probably I'm probably negative,
I would think. Yeah.
>> And so I do think there'll be some
rationalization where these models um
kind of self-pick which one they're
running based on what you need. I
probably don't need to be using
>> and move to more of a consumption logic.
Yeah,
>> move more to more of a consumption
logic. they're already uh they're
already doing that in in parts of their
enterprise business. Um and and you
know, as they've transitioned to more of
this consumption logic, I think it's led
to some real unlocks. Uh you you know,
for the business, I think it that makes
it harder if you're in the the lab game
and you don't have a consumer product
and you don't own an application that
you can drive high gross margins. I
think then gets back to this question,
how long can you run the your business
for share, right? Hoping that someday
because you know they all exist at the
beneficence of the capital markets and
the capital markets are willing to
provide an incredible amount of capital
to these businesses today. They sure
are.
>> Um but but but you and I have we've
lived through these periods where that
disappears quickly. And can I can I put
something there just to kind of hear
your feedback on it guys which is look
at Google and the TPU and Google is
clearly you know by these numbers that
we're seeing right putting out more
tokens than anyone else right do they do
you guys believe they have a strategic
advantage because they have their own
hardware they're not having to pay you
know 80% margin on something that they
can generate tokens with like how do you
guys look at that business and say
clearly they look to be sort of the
largest at least openly saying um the
largest processor of tokens. I think
look the key data point in that case
which I don't have the data but I'd be
glad to repeat it if someone shared it
with us is how many non-G Google uh
applications are running on the TPUs
like how many third party customers are
using because I what I've heard or what
the you know the general perception is
is that that most of their proprietary
TPU transactions are their own
applications.
>> Yep. But that's probably where most of
their tokens are being processed anyways
at this point, Bill, right? Like
transcribing YouTube videos and you know
all in Google Meet you can turn it on
and all the searches.
>> I I was just inferring in your question,
maybe I shouldn't have been that that
they'll have an advantage for Google
Cloud. And in in order for that to be
true, they need to to have this
crossover moment. One quick thing, Brad,
on on Open AI, you know, I'm I've I've
been writing a book, which I've talked
about frequently, and I've been quite uh
although I guess there's some privacy
things now you need to be worried about,
but I've been quite open with Open AI
about the book and doing research, you
know, along the way. it knows a
tremendous amount about my book right
now and I can ask follow-up questions
without having to put the whole book
back in the prompt again um because of
that. And so I can I would I continue to
believe that OpenAI's
um most likely chance to long-term um
success comes from switching cost and
lock in more than it will come from
staying on the edge of the of the model
race because I think
>> and the pricing and the pricing power
that comes with that brand dominance,
right? No doubt.
>> Because the the fact of the matter is
you said you're paying 200 bucks, you're
getting more than $200 in value. I don't
know what the price is, but I know that
if it was variable, you would pay a hell
of a lot more money to use that service.
>> I would I would but but but the the the
lock in once of these systems starts to
truly understand you and have all your
historic knowledge um I think the
switching cost will be very high at that
moment in time.
>> Sunonny, back to your question about the
TPU and the advantage of that vertical
integration um you know to to Google. I
think it's it's it's too early to know.
What I would tell you is that uh they
they've absolutely made some changes I
think over the course of the last you
know 3 to four months to accelerate the
business. You you've seen the news about
OpenAI uh leveraging TPUs for some of
the inference uh you know uh demand that
that they have. Um ultimately what I've
said all along about Google is there
many ways the best position company in
the world but a lot of their advantage
right is no longer much of an advantage
right and namely that you know they were
the dominant place where the consumer
started every single query and we know
today that's just not true in you know
when people are looking for answers
Bill's book is not in Google bill's book
is in you know chat GBT and that's the
>> actually it's in Google doc but but
you're right you're Right. The knowledge
of it, the knowledge of it,
>> the knowledge of it and the interaction
and the the token generation. So my only
point is this,
>> the battle for the consumer is
ultimately where the value occurs,
Sunny, not who runs, you know, what
hardware. And so Google's dominance, the
it's been the greatest b business in the
history of capitalism for 20 years
because they owned the consumer. They
owned the verb in something that was
extraordinarily high margin. And all I
would say is the first real threat in 20
years came about because in the chat GBT
moment it's continued to accelerate. I
think chat GBT will cross a billion
weeklys
like maybe this year. Um you know
probably this year I would guess. Um,
and so that to me has always been the
case, right, for open AI. And when you
look at the rest of these frontier labs,
the case you've made throughout this
pod, about seven of these models in in
in in China, being able to open source,
distill off one another, drive up
intelligence, drive down cost. What that
tells me is the model layer is being
increasingly commoditized
and that there's not going to be a lot
of intrinsic value in in in that
intelligence layer, that operating
layer. You're going to have to build
applications that guys like Bill Gurley
and and you and I are using every day.
And that's where the battle is on the
consumer side. You're going to have the
exact same battle when it comes to
coding agents and general enterprise
applications. And I've said there, I
think it's going to be more of a uh uh
you know, heterogeneous world. I think
they're going to be lots of players that
compete. I think the margins will be
lower. Yeah.
>> Uh in that world, but it may very well
be that the tide is going up so much
here, right? The whole world is
transforming so much around this that
you're still going to have lots of
players who do incredibly well. I have
to say I'm surprised if you would have
told any of us a year ago or 18 months
ago, right, that the combined enterprise
value of Open AI and Anthropic together
would be over half a trillion dollars.
And you throw X.AI in there, it' be a
trillion dollars, you know, across the
the three of them roughly. um it's
bigger and faster and the compute demand
is higher than any of us I think
anticipated. Sunny, hopefully we can
keep you on here for a bit. We're just
going to wrap up with a um you know a
topic that I think has dominated really
the conversation in the markets over the
course of last year and that's been
about tariffs and kind of the reordering
of global trade. Bill, you I know you
had some some questions, some thoughts
about it and I'm I'm happy to dig in and
talk about it as well. Well, I mean, I
would I would really just love to hear
from you, Brad. the the the markets got
very nervous when the um what was it
liberation day when when the kind of
unpredictabilility
of how big some of the numbers were and
what that might mean and whether we were
walking away from the notion of
comparative advantage and and I think
the markets got spooked and you know I
think you turn around and look at where
the markets are today and and we've
really gone through an evolution of how
the Wall Street is interpreting the both
the initial um launch of the tariffs and
the reality of where they're landing.
So, how would you how would you describe
that? And and why do you think the
markets are getting um very comfortable
with the where where they're landing? I
mean, not only comfortable, we're at
all-time highs,
>> you know, and and April 2nd, I was uh
going, you know, on CNBC saying the
nuclear Navaro was going to be a
disaster and I'm out, right? And that's
this the the the amazing thing about
this administration is there's really uh
you know it's a team of rivals within
the White House and you had Besset and
Lutnik who were basically outlining this
plan for you know let's call it 10 to 15
to 20% tariffs across the board that
would amount to about 300 billion in
total tariffs up from 75 billion uh in
2024. But you had Navaro who was
basically saying we're going to replace
the Internal Revenue Service. We're
going to get rid of the income tax and
we're going to have two trillion of
tariffs. Okay? And I was very clear and
I think the market was very clear. We
all voted with our wallets and we said
until the president tells us whether
it's door one or door two, we're out.
>> The market shot first and asked
questions later. And that's where you
saw that huge draw down in the market.
The NASDAQ was down 21%
right at its trough this year. Now the
NASDAQ's up over 10. It's a 30% move in
about 60 or 70 days, which is
extraordinary even by the historical
patterns that we've seen over the course
of the last 5 years. But let me back up
here for a second.
>> I think the consensus view of all
economists, right, 90% of economists is
that tariffs are going to be bad.
They're going to be a tax that gets paid
by the US consumer. There was a small
group led by you know Scott Bessant and
Kevin Hassid at the National Economic
Council that said no it's actually going
to be different this time and the reason
it's going to be different this time is
their theory uh argued was that the
world had become dependent upon
exporting to the United States so that
the total trade deficit to the United
States of goods and services was about
915 billion last last year a $1.2 2
trillion goods deficit
and that basically meant that China was
selling a lot more to the United States
than than they were buying of US goods
and and so what Bessant and Hasset
postulated was that these countries have
no choice if we impose a tariff on them
so long as it's not draconian 70% 80%
what Navaro was talking about if we
impose a 15% tariff on them they have to
eat it the producers have to eat it
because otherwise they're going end up
laying off millions of people in
Vietnam, in China, in these countries.
And politically, they can't afford to
lay these folks off. So that was their
theory of the case. The consensus
economist said, "No way is that true.
You're going to see massive inflation."
But what have you seen? You have not
seen the in the the inflation percolate
through. I will caveat this by saying
yet.
>> Okay. So here we are in July. The e the
consensus economist said it would have
already happened and the national
economic council was out with a paper
last week that deconstructed core PCE.
So that's the uh uh uh what the the best
proxy the Fed watches for inflation
since the start of the year. And it
showed this was really interesting.
Import prices have been going up at a
slower rate than domestically produced
goods. Okay, so this is the exact
opposite of what you would have expected
from tariffs. Of course, you would have
expected the imported prices would have
been going up more than domestic uh
goods. And so we'll show these charts um
and we'll we'll put the link to this
paper. People ought to take a look at
that. But to me, um, when I look at the
president's, uh, the deals he's landing,
the deal he just got announced yesterday
with the European Union, 15% on all
goods coming from Europe, 0% on US goods
going to Europe. So, an opening up of
Europe markets, paying us 15% and on top
of that getting commitments like $750
billion, almost a trillion dollars of
energy purchases from the US. Or look at
Japan, which they announced last week.
Another huge market. Again, similar.
They're going to pay tariffs to the
United States. No tariffs imposed on the
United States. And they're going to
invest $550 billion into the US in a way
the president gets to direct. So, I
would I would I just think we need to
give the president credit where credit
is due. Everybody said this was going to
lead to retaliation, to trade wars, was
going to be disastrous for the US. And
all we've seen so far is deals, deals,
deals, deals. And I have to say, if this
was the CEO of one of our companies,
right? Let's say we had a board meeting
at the start of the year and he outlined
these plans and we said, "Hey, we're
really nervous about this. You know,
this is a high-risk, highreward
strategy. it's either going to backfire
and we're going to fire you or it's
going to work really well and we give
you a bonus. If we're measuring them
halfway through the year, I would say
that he's in line for a bonus based upon
the trillions of dollars that are going
to be coming into the United States and
the fact that we now have a 300 to a
$350 billion recurring,
you know, stream of revenues into
Treasury in the form of these tariffs
which are being paid. and and and I
think Bessant said last week in the
month of June we had our first surplus
in the United States monthly surplus
since 2015
>> right because of the tariff revenues
that are coming in. So I will say this I
was on the fence I knew the nuclear
tariffs the trillion or two trillion I
knew that was a disaster. I said if we
landed the plane where Bessant wanted to
come in at 300 billion, I thought there
was a decent chance that those prices
could be passed on in the home countries
and so far it looks like that's the
case.
>> Do you have any concerns? What's the uh
anything you're watching out for?
Well, I think the the number one thing
is core PCE h did bottom last year and
it started to tick up and so we have to
keep our eye on inflation. And of
course, I think it's almost impossible
to conceive that we would have totally
reordered the entire global trading
system on the first pass with zero
mistakes. So, we're going to have some
some goods and some products that, you
know, consumers are US consumers are
going to end up paying the taxes and
we're going to have to go back and fix
some of these things. But, I will say
that it's turning out massively better
than consensus criticisms. I mean,
remember Larry Summers at the CO2 event.
>> I mean, this was just a few months ago
and he was saying this is the biggest
economic disaster of of his career. And
I I don't think you can describe it that
way. The markets are the voting machine
is telling you and these are a lot of
sophisticated investors. The voting
machine is telling you that no
retaliations, no trade wars, all these
deals getting done um uh works for the
US economy. And I will tell you that the
Atlanta now Fed tracker which tracks
real-time GDP has now ticked up back to
3%. So after going down a lot in April,
it's bounced way back up. So economic
activity uh appears to be going up. And
then one final thing here,
remember one of the key reasons for
doing this, right? Wasn't just because
we were, you know, there was I mean the
EU conceded in the trade negotiations
that they that our relationship was
unfairly balanced in the direction of
the EU. I mean they said that's the
starting point. So we have to rebalance
it. But on top of that, a key reason for
doing this was to support the domestic
production of critical national
industries and to make our supply chains
more resilient chips, data centers,
energy production. At Altimter, we just
led the series A in a company, I don't
even know if we've announced it, but
I'll announce it here, which is an
all-American producer of rare earth
magnets. Right? So these are now viable
investments because of the tariffs and
the resolve of the government to
reonshore these critical supply chains.
So I mean that's a huge benefit that you
would be willing to pay something for
but we're getting the benefit and on top
of that we're getting paid.
>> Yeah. Can I add one thing guys like not
on the economic side but like you know
running the supply chain you know Grock
and look we're we're fortunate that like
the majority of our supply chain is US-
ccentric including our chips but
>> um you know we still have small discreet
components and Brad exactly what you
were saying is happening is that the the
producers the manufacturers of those
things are coming and you're negotiating
and we've had pretty you know
significant negotiations with those
folks and that that was I think like not
like you said wasn't anticipated. The
other thing is it hasn't been um static.
The one thing again I'll go back to this
administration they moved like we've
we've seen you know our tariff schedule
move around probably six to eight times
since this all has started because they
keep evaluating they understand they
listen and I think that's also a
function of how this administration
operates and we want to give them credit
for that like people can go and share
with them hey like these things are not
available we can't replace them right
away and I think that that's also
helping with that last thing you said
with the investment you're making is
companies get established
on shore to take advantage of what these
tariffs are causing.
>> Sunny, has your supply chain planning
and that that dynamic nature, is that
started to settle down? Do you see this,
you know, are we reaching the end of the
tariff negotiation such that everything
can kind of settle down and operate?
>> It's gone from week to week or even day
to day when it first started and trying
to figure out what happened to like now
we're looking at it monthly. So, it's
definitely settling. And Brad, we still
have a big thing looming with a China
discussion, correct?
>> Yeah. You know, listen, so we landed
Europe, we've landed Japan, we're going
to have, you know, the long uh the long
list is is is going to be coming out,
but when you look at our big trading
part partners, the EU, we do, I think,
$900 billion of trade with them a year.
With China, it's about 600 billion, but
we have about a $300 billion goods trade
deficit with both Europe and China. So
they were the the the two big ones. Um
China is the big enchilada because it's
not just trade with China, right? It's
strategic. It's national security and
its trade. Um and it's the AI race. We
know that, you know, the rare earth ban
on Chinese magnets was devastating to US
industry. We know the retaliation that,
you know, where where H20s were cut off
in terms of Nvidia's chips back to
China. reading the tea leaves. I'm going
to I'll go out on a limb and I'll say um
the consensus still believes like that
the China thing is going to be a problem
or that it will be small. I think this
president wants to do the biggest deal
ever done with China. I don't think he's
dogmatic at all. I don't think he's some
big China hawk. He said at the AI summit
last week, I'm a deal junkie. I like to
do deals. You can't be the biggest deal
maker in the world without doing a big
deal with China.
>> All right.
>> Right. And I and I, you know, if you
just look at today, the Chinese uh
reciprocated in a way I think the the US
government was looking for. They said,
"Hey, we'll postpone all of our
retaliatory tariffs." They've invited
the president to China. The president
has suggested he's going to go to China
the first week of September or sometime
between September and November. I think
there is a very very big deal that's
going to get done with China that's
going to reorient the relationship in a
big way. And let me just like tease
this. The president said earlier this
year something that caught all of our
attention. He said, "You know, if I
could wave a magic wand, I would cut the
defense budget in half for the United
States, for China, and for Russia."
We've never heard a US president in
history utter anything like that.
>> Be amazing. That is a what I would call
an extraordinarily flexible mindset. And
if you go into this deal negotiation
with China with that sort of flexible
mindset, I think it could include all of
the above. Rare earth chips, maybe even
military cooperation, certainly a
rebalancing of trade. I think China's,
Listen, we entered the year with China
paying 15% in tariffs. That was
pre-Trump. They were paying 15% to the
United States in tariffs. So I don't
think we're going below 15%. I think
they're going to pay
>> that in in Trump for
>> Trump won and Trump won, right? So I
think that they will continue to pay at
least 15%, but I think it's going to be
much more structured, much more nuanced.
You know, Besson's been very clear China
has to rebalance to domestic consumption
and away from an export economy that's
really uh sticking it to the US in terms
of the trades def trade deficit. I think
China gets that. I think they want that
for their own country. I think they're
willing to do that. I think the United
States understands that can't happen
overnight. It has to happen over a
period of years. I think that there's
going to be a big Chinese deal done
before the year's out.
>> So So let let's close with this, Brad.
You've you've often on the pod um been
willing to speak about your your own
temperature for the US markets and and
and where you whether you're net long or
net short. and you
>> you've on this podcast been more
enthusiastic than I've ever seen you
both about uh about AI, but but this
this China theory that you have, I
think, would would cause the markets to
rip, if you're correct. Um, but you also
said we're at all-time highs, you know,
and so you want to buy low and sell
high. So, where where's your head
hanging?
>> Uh, we did a pod, I think, around May
2nd. Well, we did the pod in March and I
I I said we're out of the market. I
remember.
>> Right. And you and you said you're early
and liberation day came and we were
happy to be out of the market. On May
2nd, I said we're all we're all back in
because the Bessant consensus has won.
It's going to be 300 billion. We're
going to land the plane. And I outlined
a flight path. I said you can land the
plane, no inflation, you get rate cuts
and you know, and it's kind of off to
the races. And we're up 30%, you know,
off of that bottom in the NASDAQ since
then. So 30%'s a huge move, but when
when you when you telescope out, we're
up 10% for the year.
>> Okay? And if I had told you guys on day
one of this year, here's what's going to
happen.
>> We're going to rebalance global trade
and we're going to land the plane around
300 billion. We're going to have the
economy grow at 3% accelerating. We're
going to um uh you know have no
inflation heading toward rate cuts by
the end of the year.
um you know that is the backdrop you
know that I and we're going to have all
of this AI demand and accelerating
demand for AI compute I I would have
said the market can be up at least 15%
for the year I think we've captured a
lot of the return for the for the year
Bill I will tell you this though we see
tons of opportunities and so I would say
that we're also bullish on what we see
happening in AI Sunny's going to raise a
huge new round here we're happy to be
investors with Sunny as well and and
it's extraordinary to Watch watch what
Sunny's uh No, seriously. He
>> wasn't supposed to disclose that. He can
edit it out.
>> He has He has it, but his face is
turning all red.
>> Have a good week. And
>> thank you, Sunny, for coming on with us
today. Thank you so much. I know it's
>> Thanks for having me. Thank
>> Yeah. Thanks, guys.
>> Byebye.
>> Take care, guys.
[Applause]
[Music]
As a reminder to everybody, just our
opinions, not investment advice.